- Wow,
our first real sound check.
This is huge.
- Not as huge as when we rock it
tomorrow
at Battle of the Bands.
all: Yeah!
- That's cool too,
but I really love sound checks.
- Think we'll win?
- After we killed it
at the auditions,
we're walking in here
as the band to beat.
all: Yeah!
- Well, well, well.
If it isn't Preschool of Rock.
- Hello, Justin.
How's Night Lizard?
- Or should we say
Night...Gizzard?
- Do you even know
what a gizzard is?
- No. You?
- I asked you first.
I win...
just like we're gonna win
Battle of the Bands,
because we're a real band
and you're a bunch of babies.
- Babies?
Well, say hello
to Goo-goo and Ga-ga.
- Bring it. I've picked
boogers bigger than you.
- Okay, those guys
are the worst,
but everyone else in this club
is gonna give us the respect
we deserve.
- Yeah.
- Hey, Dewey.
Your baby band
want my keys to play with?
Does the wittle guy
wanna wook at the keys?
- No one cares
about your keys.
- I hope you remember our bet,
Dewey.
- Oh, I remembered.
What did I bet?
- You bet your van that we'd win
Battle of the Bands.
- That's fine. I'm a rocker.
All I need in this life
is my guitar.
- You also bet your guitar.
- I'm so stupid.
- Hey, uh,
isn't it time for your nap?
Here's a beddy-bye story
for you.
You're gonna lose.
The end.
- You're the one
who's going to lose,
because we've got a killer song.
- And we're gonna rock it,
because we practice
all the time.
- Every day, yo.
- In Room 21A
at William B. Travis Prep,
which is our classroom,
but we've turned it
into rehearsal space
with an elaborate system for
hiding our instruments.
Boom.
- We're in a sound check
right now.
You'll see.
We're not little kids.
Someone give me a boost.
- I'm your man.
- Whoa. Where we going?
[crashing]
- Someone call my pediatrician.
I mean grown-up doctor.
[upbeat rock music]
- * Stop tellin' me
to read between the lines *
* It all adds up
to one thing *
- Five, four, three,
two, one.
- * If you think you're gonna
lose your cool *
* Well, sometimes you gotta
break the rules *
* Hey, show me what you know,
give it up to rock 'n' roll *
* 'Cause we ain't
gonna stop *
*
* If you're feeling like
you're gettin' schooled *
* There's an answer
right in front of you *
* Hey, show me what you know,
give it up to rock 'n' roll *
* 'Cause we ain't
gonna stop *
- * Hey!
- * Are you ready to rock?
- All right, there's the band
that's gonna take home
the trophy tonight.
kids: Yeah.
- Tomika, you pumped?
- [in croaky voice] Yeah.
- Whoa, your throat
sounds terrible.
Does it hurt?
- I feel like a swallowed
a flip-flop.
I may be coming down
with something.
- This is serious.
We need your voice tonight.
Good thing I always carry
my rock-and-roll first aid kit.
Stage dive bandages,
emergency drumstick
eye-poke patch, breath mint.
Not a breath mint.
Here we go.
Take a slug of this.
- Ugh, what is this?
Liquid worm guts?
- Tomika, don't be disgusting.
It's fish tank algae.
Beyoncé swears by it.
- It says,
"Not for human consumption."
- Beyoncé's not a human.
She's a god.
I'll make you a deal.
Just take a swig,
and you can have this lollipop
to wash it down.
- Or I'll just take
the lollipop.
Good day, sir.
- Did you guys see this?
We're not even on the Battle
of the Bands website.
Night Lizard, Black Box,
The Flying Armageda Brothers.
- There we are, "And others."
That's us.
- And every other band
has a cool bio page.
All we have is a picture
of Mr. Finn eating a hot dog.
- Ah, am I standing
next to a Porta-Potty?
- Yeah.
- That's a good pic.
- Mr. Finn, we're not getting
the respect we deserve.
They're treating us like
a bunch of little kids.
- It doesn't matter what
other people think of us now.
When we're on that stage
tonight,
everyone will take us seriously.
All right, we have
science lab this afternoon,
so let's get in
one last rehearsal.
- Yeah.
[music playing]
- Cool lick.
Is that "Shut Up and Dance?"
- Yeah, but I recorded
myself playing it
and sped up the tempo.
- Nice.
[music playing]
- Hello?
- Hey, Zack.
It's me, Lawrence.
I'm just calling to tell you
how awesome your ring tone is.
- Thanks, man.
- So how's life?
- Okay, I got to go.
- All right, guys, let's really
concentrate on our song.
It's our secret weapon.
Night Lizard won't know
what hit 'em.
- Yeah.
- One, two, three, four!
[lively rock music]
*
- * You got one shot,
tick tock *
* Blink and then
it's all gone, so long *
* Let me hear you say,
"Whoa, the time is now" *
- Enjoy it while it lasts,
Uncool of Rock.
Ha ha!
- * Don't want to find out
it's too late *
* Let me hear you say...
- Can we leave yet?
I mean, school's over, and the
other kids have gone ahead.
We can't be late
for Battle of the Bands.
- We have to follow my plan
to sneak out.
If people see us
with our instruments,
they'll know
we're a secret band.
Lawrence, hall monitor status.
- Clark's finishing his
ceremonial folding of the vest.
We get it, Clark.
You take your job seriously.
He's off duty. We're clear.
- Great. It's go time, people.
[gasps]
The track team
is heading this way.
Why are they coming inside?
- It says they're
repaving the track,
so practice is inside.
- Freddy, you were
supposed to make sure
there were no activities
in the halls.
- I thought I did,
but I must have gotten
distracted by life problems.
- I'm sorry if you're going
through a rough time.
- No, it's a game on my phone
called Life Problems.
I have to get the money
to send my twins to college,
or my ex-wife is gonna sue me.
- I'm on my way.
- Principal Mullins!
- Oh, Principal Mullins!
Did you get your hair...
something?
- Okay, I don't have time
for chitchat.
The sprinklers outside
are all going haywire.
So if you don't mind,
I'll be out back
bailing out the soccer field.
You want to know why?
Because I'm an educator.
- Guys, get the stuff.
- Hold on!
- [gasps]
- Go, team!
- They're too unpredictable.
We'll never get out of here.
- I got us into this mess.
I'll get us out of it.
[whistles]
Okay, Lions.
Last one to Miss Fisher's
art room has to do push-ups.
Let's go.
- We have to move. Go, go, go.
- I've got them doing
wind sprints in the library.
Also, no idea how I ended up
at the top of the stairs.
- I can't believe you guys
made me pull you
out of the sprinklers!
- Sorry, Mr. Finn.
It's one of my life rules.
If there's a sprinkler,
I run through it.
- Tomika,
you should rest your voice.
We have to keep you
from getting sick.
- [sneezes]
- "Er."
"Sicker."
- Guys, the important thing
is, we're all together,
and we're on our way
to Battle of the Bands!
- Yeah!
- Whoo!
[music playing]
- Lawrence, stop calling me!
[music continues]
La--
Lawrence?
- Zack. I'm still in here.
Is it safe to come out yet?
- Turn the van around!
[tires screech]
- Here I come!
Ooh, sprinklers.
- We did it!
We made it
to Battle of the Bands!
And you know why?
Because we're rockers.
When we put our minds
to something,
nothing gets in our way.
Uh, dude,
you're kind of in our way.
- We have a dress code.
No wet clothes allowed.
- Sir, I don't know
what you're talking about.
Our clothes aren't wet.
- [retching]
- That was disgusting.
But I think I made my point.
- What are we going to do?
Battle of the Bands
is about to start,
and we don't have time
to go home and get dry clothes.
- There's a store
across the street.
- Ow! My thumb.
- Aw, the poor wittle baby
hurt his wittle thumb.
- We are not babies.
[laughter]
- To be fair, we do
kind of look like babies.
- Of all the stores,
it had to be Pajamarama.
- Good thing
I had that gift card.
- Could we look
any more pathetic?
- Our first band up
is last year's winner,
Night Lizard!
[rock music playing
and crowd cheering]
- Guys, I know things look bad,
but we can't give up.
I'm telling you,
it doesn't matter
what these people think
of us now.
The second they see us
on that stage,
they'll know we've got something
they don't:
a killer song!
- Yeah.
- * Whoa, our time is now
- Why does this song sound
so familiar?
- * 'Cause
you know tomorrow won't wait *
* And I don't want to find out *
- Because it's our song.
They're stealing our song!
- Nooo--
- Don't worry. I got you.
Ooooooooooooo!
- * Our time is now
[cheers and applause]
- I can't believe
Night Lizard stole our song.
- We lost Battle of the Bands
before we even got a chance
to play.
- The judges haven't given
their scores yet.
We might still have hope.
- Wow!
A nine, and nine, and a ten.
That is going to be
almost impossible to beat.
- I was probably wrong to put
so much weight on the scores.
- What are we going to do?
Tomika's voice is gone.
We don't have a singer.
- We don't have a song either.
- Yeah, if we sing our song now,
it'll seem like we stole it
from Night Lizard.
- I never should have bragged
about our song to them.
- We all bragged,
like dumb little kids.
- Everybody was right about us.
We get distracted
by video games.
- We run through sprinklers.
- And then we have to wear
stupid ducky pajamas.
Although I am coming around
on these.
I just discovered the hood.
[hood quacking]
- [sighs]
Tomika's right.
We should just give up
and go home.
- How did you--
- I speak Tomika.
- This is just not fair.
You kids work harder
than all these other bands.
Those guys don't have homework.
- They don't have
to sneak out of school.
- And they don't have
to work so hard
to keep their band a secret.
- Exactly.
If only we could prove
to everybody that we rock
and we deserve to be taken
serious--
[hood quacking]
- Sorry. But you're right.
I say this isn't over.
We can still blow the roof
off this joint!
All we need is a plan.
I've got one.
Summer, think of a plan.
- Me?
- Yeah.
You're our manager for a reason.
If there's a solution out there,
you'll find it.
[music plays]
- Sorry.
I'll put this on vibrate.
I know it's getting annoying.
- No, it's not getting annoying.
That's our plan.
- You're welcome, people.
- Oh, Principal Mullins.
A word, if I may.
There's trouble afoot.
- What is it this time?
- Mr. Finn's class.
They've taken off in his van
on an unauthorized trip.
- Where would he take them?
- Battle of the Bands.
It's today.
- [sighs heavily]
Well, I suppose I'll have
to skip my Funkercize spin class
and look into this.
- Right behind you, Chief.
I'll get my vest.
- What are we doing on the roof
of the club?
- This is where we're going
to rehearse our new song.
- What new song?
[music playing]
- That song,
"Shut Up and Dance."
We'll use Zack's guitar lick
as a start
to make our own
killer version of it.
But first we've got
to get our singer back.
- Algae time.
Let me shake it up first.
All the sludge is at the bottom.
- I know it's yucky, Tomiks,
but we need you to do it.
I'll drink some with you.
Algae me, Mr. Finn.
[sighs] Okay.
One...two...
three.
- No fair.
You didn't drink yours!
- It was disgusting!
- My voice.
Hey, I can complain again.
- Which means you can sing.
- I'm gonna stick
with complaining.
- Lawrence, help me
put the clothes up to dry.
- Sure.
- Now all we have to do
is learn the song.
- It took us months
to learn the last one.
- We are better musicians now.
We know each other's rhythms.
We're a well-oiled machine.
- This part of the machine
just let someone's pants
fall off the building.
- Oh, well.
Freddy, give us a beat.
[drum beating]
No, no.
That's Walk the Moon's beat.
I want the School of Rock beat.
Zack, start your riff.
[guitar music]
Freddy, give us a beat
off of Zack.
*
Love it.
Tomika, lay down a bass.
*
Lawrence, put some frosting
on it.
*
Summer, bring it.
One, two, three, four!
- * Is our destiny
* He said, "Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me *
- This is even better
than the song we had before!
- We might be able to win!
- * Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me *
*
[all cheer]
- Lizards.
- You can't steal this song.
You already had your turn.
- Actually,
we came to apologize.
We feel bad about what we did.
- Well, an apology is nice,
but, word to the wise,
a greeting card along with it
really classes it up.
- We thought about it,
and we realized
you're not just a bunch of kids.
- Aw, thanks, man.
- You're a bunch of kids...
locked on a roof!
[song ends]
[cheers and applause]
- Let's hear it for Black Box!
Next up, our very last band,
School of Rock!
[cheers and applause]
- They're calling our name.
We're gonna miss it!
- I don't think we're trying
to open the door anymore.
- Is that what we were doing?
- Man. Of all the days
not to bring my parachute.
- School of Rock,
get up here or be disqualified.
- It's over.
We're not going to get to play.
- No one's ever going
to take us seriously now.
- We came so close.
We even learned the song
in 20 minutes.
Wait a second.
We just learned a song
in 20 minutes.
No one's more serious than us.
- But you said we need to get
on stage to prove ourselves.
- I was wrong.
We don't have to prove
anything to anyone.
All we need is each other.
We're at Battle of the Bands!
Or on top of it, anyway.
So why don't we play right here,
for ourselves?
- Mr. Finn is right.
- Yeah, let's rock.
all: Yeah!
- [sighs]
Well, I guess
they're not showing.
And you should give the trophy
to the band
with the highest score,
which appears to be...
Night Lizard.
Hey, that's my band.
- One, two, three!
- * Shut up
*
* Oh, don't you dare
look back *
* Just keep your eyes on me
* I said,
"You're holding back" *
* He said, "Shut up
and dance with me" *
* This moment is our destiny
* He said, "Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me" *
*
- * We were victims
of the night *
* The chemical physical
kryptonite *
* Helpless to the bass
and the fading light *
* Oh, we were bound
to get together *
* Bound to get together
- And so the winner
of this year's
Austin Battle of the Bands
is--
[muffled music]
What's that sound?
- It's the sound
of my heartbeat.
I'm just so excited right now.
- It sounds like it's coming
from the roof.
Let's go check it out.
- Yeah, you guys check it out.
I'll hold the trophy.
Vince? Vince?
- * He took my arm
* I don't know how it happened *
* We took the floor,
and he said *
* "Oh, don't you dare
look back *
* Just keep your eyes on me"
* I said,
"You're holding back" *
* He said, "Shut up
and dance with me" *
* This moment is our destiny
* He said, "Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me" *
*
* A backless dress
and some beat-up sneaks *
* A discotheque Juliet
teenage dream *
- This better be good, Clark.
I'm paying
my cat-sitter overtime.
- Oh, this is a clean bust.
Behold Mr. Finn
and his class of rule breakers.
I can't wait to see
the furious look on your face.
Yeah, that look.
*
- * Deep in his eyes,
I think I see the future *
* I realize
this is my last chance *
* He took my arm
* I don't know how it happened *
* We took the floor,
and he said *
*
* "Oh, don't you dare
look back *
* Just keep your eyes on me"
* I said,
"You're holding back" *
* He said...
- * "Shut up
and dance with me" *
- * This moment is our destiny
* He said, "Ooh, ooh"
- * "Shut up and dance"
- * Don't you dare look back *
* Just keep your eyes on me
* I said,
"You're holding back" *
* He said, "Shut up
and dance with me" *
* This moment is our destiny
* He said, "Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me" *
*
- * Ooh, ooh
- * Shut up and dance
with me *
*
* Ooh, ooh,
shut up and dance with me *
*
[cheers and applause]
- That was amazing.
Judges.
[cheers and applause]
So the winner of this year's
Battle of the Bands
is School of Rock!
[cheers and applause]
- No!
- Does somebody need his wubbie?
- I know you're making fun
of me.
But yes.
- Dude, you were right
about these kids,
and you've inspired me.
I'm going to start a band
with a bunch of toddlers.
- Rock on, man.
- And since you won the bet,
you can have the old name
Dewey Finn Experience back.
- Thanks, but I don't need it.
I'm in School of Rock.
kids: Yeah!
[cheers and applause]